Tuktu practice combined is known as, commonly known as zopa, chen, zopa chen. It is beautiful,
all in its ignition, great perfection, all great completion. Maybe I told the picture.
I mean, it's good to translate the perfection, it is perfect, but also it can be good to translate
great completions. What is that? When we practice a tuktu and a toga practice or tuktu, when we
practice or even a tuktu practices, really it completed all the meritorious, meritorious activities
.
What are those meritorious activities? Accumulation meritorious, worship meritorious,
are completed in Dzogchen. Therefore it's called complete, it's great. It's not just missing some
part. It's total practices, when you practice. And when you practice of the Dzogchen or tuktu
practice, it also completed all the chamad meditations. It completed all the vipachana meditations.
It completed all the vigilizations. And the complete characteristics of practices,
really it captures everything. And it captures, for example, six parama practices and four bodhic
itta
practices. I mean, it is complete, the total complete. And that means also it complete the
teachings. Partly Bodhayana teachings, Bodhisattva teachings, Karyatenda Bodhayana teachings, Mahay
oga,
Anayoga teachings completed. Really it's complete. It's essence. And what is the teaching? When the
ocean is the gathering places, all the waters, the flows. Same way Dzogchen is all the teachings
are condensed in Dzogchen. It's not really missing anything. For therefore it is Dzogchen.
It's Dzogchen or great completion, great perfection.
That is, that